Thus far we have discussed one type of data science problem in particular,
those that require supervised learning.
A second class of data science methods is known as unsupervised learning.
Unsupervised learning models exploit patterns in the data,
but are not concerned about predicting towards a specific outcome.
One of the most common families of unsupervised learning is clustering.
The general task for clustering algorithms is to
identify groups of cases according to similarities in their variables.
Clustering algorithms in use today provide
the algorithmic foundation of the Google PageRank algorithm,
classification of news items,
gene expression in DNA microarrays,
social network analysis, customer segmentation, and market segmentation.
A second form of unsupervised learning is known as anomaly detection.
The goal of anomaly detection,
as its name suggests,
is to identify aberrant cases or
unusual cases based on the collection of variables that characterize those cases.
Monitoring systems, such as those aim to detect fraud, phishing attacks,
breakdowns in a manufacturing process,
or surges in network traffic often have their basis in anomaly detection methods.
Finally, a more specialized technical type
of unsupervised learning is dimensionality reduction.
We will not dive too deep into dimensionality reduction in this course,
but it's good to be familiar with as a technique used in
machine learning modeling for reducing the complexity of
the set of features or variables that might
subsequently be used in a supervised learning context.